README.md, before:

# dry-config

Simple base class for DRY configurations configurations that can be loaded from multiple overriding yml files.
  
Sample uses include environment based e.g. `development, test, production` and multi-domain white label configurations.  

A programmatic seed configuration may be specified, as well as the ability to load one to many overriding configuration files.
 
The [elastic-beanstalk gem](https://github.com/alienfast/elastic-beanstalk) is a real world example that utilized `Dry::Config::Base`.

## Installation

Add this line to your application's Gemfile:

    gem 'dry-config'

And then execute:

    $ bundle

Or install it yourself as:

    $ gem install dry-config

## Usage

### Step 1.  Write a config class
Note this sample uses the `Singleton` pattern, which is useful but not required.

```ruby    
require 'singleton'
require 'dry/config'

class AcmeConfig < Dry::Config::Base
    
    # (optional) make this the only instance 
    include Singleton
    
    # seed the sensible defaults here
    def seed_default_configuration
      
      @configuration = {
          environment: nil,
          strategy: :blue_green,
          package: {
              verbose: false
          },
          options: {}
      }
    end
end
```
    
### Step 2.  Write a yml config file
    
```yaml
# sample config demonstrating multi-environment override
---
app: acme
title: Acme Holdings, LLC
#---
options:
  aws:elasticbeanstalk:application:environment:
    RAILS_ENV: foobar

  aws:autoscaling:launchconfiguration:
    InstanceType: foo

#---
development:
  strategy: inplace-update
  package:
    verbose: true
  options:
    aws:autoscaling:launchconfiguration:
      InstanceType: t1.micro
    aws:elasticbeanstalk:application:environment:
      RAILS_ENV: development

#---
production:
  options:
    aws:autoscaling:launchconfiguration:
      InstanceType: t1.large
    aws:elasticbeanstalk:application:environment:
      RAILS_ENV: production    
```

### Step 3. Load your config
 Note that multiple files can be loaded and overriden.  A nil environment is also possible.
 
```ruby
AcmeConfig.instance.load!(:production, 'path_to/acme.yml')
```

### Step 4. Use the values
 Note that all keys are symbolized upon loading.

```ruby
config = Acme.config.instance
config.load!(:production, 'path_to/acme.yml')

config.app          # acme
config.title        # Acme Holdings, LLC    
config.strategy     # :blue_green,
config.options[:'aws:autoscaling:launchconfiguration'][:InstanceType] # t1.large
```   
   
## Other options
- Expected environments are `[:development, :test, :staging, :production]`.  Expand or redefine `@potential_environments` these by overriding the `#initialize` or doing so in your optional `#seed_default_configuration`.  This is used in the used in the overlay pruning process to prevent unused branches of configuration from showing up in the resolved configuration.
- An optional `#seed_default_configuration` allows you to provide a configuration base    
- `#clear` will restore to the seed configuration, allowing you to `#load!` new settings.

## White Label sample

```ruby
    class WhiteLabelConfig < Dry::Config::Base
    end

    config = WhiteLabelConfig.new
    config.load!(nil, 'base.yml', 'acme.com.yml', 'scheduling.acme.com.yml')
```    
   
## Contributing

1. Fork it
2. Create your feature branch (`git checkout -b my-new-feature`)
3. Commit your changes (`git commit -am 'Add some feature'`)
4. Push to the branch (`git push origin my-new-feature`)
5. Create new Pull Request

Commit message:

Added ENV interpolation/substitution/expansion

README.md, after:

# dry-config

Simple base class for DRY configurations configurations that can be loaded from multiple overriding yml files.
  
Sample uses include environment based e.g. `development, test, production` and multi-domain white label configurations.  

A programmatic seed configuration may be specified, as well as the ability to load one to many overriding configuration files.
 
The [elastic-beanstalk gem](https://github.com/alienfast/elastic-beanstalk) is a real world example that utilized `Dry::Config::Base`.

## Installation

Add this line to your application's Gemfile:

    gem 'dry-config'

And then execute:

    $ bundle

Or install it yourself as:

    $ gem install dry-config

## Usage

### Step 1.  Write a config class
Note this sample uses the `Singleton` pattern, which is useful but not required.

```ruby    
require 'singleton'
require 'dry/config'

class AcmeConfig < Dry::Config::Base
    
    # (optional) make this the only instance 
    include Singleton
    
    # seed the sensible defaults here
    def seed_default_configuration
      
      @configuration = {
          environment: nil,
          strategy: :blue_green,
          package: {
              verbose: false
          },
          options: {}
      }
    end
end
```
    
### Step 2.  Write a yml config file
    
```yaml
# sample config demonstrating multi-environment override
---
app: acme
title: Acme Holdings, LLC
#---
options:
  aws:elasticbeanstalk:application:environment:
    RAILS_ENV: foobar

  aws:autoscaling:launchconfiguration:
    InstanceType: foo

#---
development:
  strategy: inplace-update
  package:
    verbose: true
  options:
    aws:autoscaling:launchconfiguration:
      InstanceType: t1.micro
    aws:elasticbeanstalk:application:environment:
      RAILS_ENV: development

#---
production:
  options:
    aws:autoscaling:launchconfiguration:
      InstanceType: t1.large
    aws:elasticbeanstalk:application:environment:
      RAILS_ENV: production    
```

### Step 3. Load your config
 Note that multiple files can be loaded and overriden.  A nil environment is also possible.
 
```ruby
AcmeConfig.instance.load!(:production, 'path_to/acme.yml')
```

### Step 4. Use the values
 Note that all keys are symbolized upon loading.

```ruby
config = Acme.config.instance
config.load!(:production, 'path_to/acme.yml')

config.app          # acme
config.title        # Acme Holdings, LLC    
config.strategy     # :blue_green,
config.options[:'aws:autoscaling:launchconfiguration'][:InstanceType] # t1.large
```   
   
## Other options
- Expected environments are `[:development, :test, :staging, :production]`.  Expand or redefine `@potential_environments` these by overriding the `#initialize` or doing so in your optional `#seed_default_configuration`.  This is used in the used in the overlay pruning process to prevent unused branches of configuration from showing up in the resolved configuration.
- An optional `#seed_default_configuration` allows you to provide a configuration base    
- `#clear` will restore to the seed configuration, allowing you to `#load!` new settings.

## ENV Interpolation/substitution/expansion

ENV variable substitution is supported and enabled by default.  It may be disabled by initializing with `{interpolation: false}`. 

The following formats are acceptable:

```yaml
interpolations:
  - ~/foo
  - $HOME/foo
  - ${HOME}/foo
  - #{HOME}/foo
  # mixed example
  - ~/docker/mysql/${PROJECT_NAME}-${BUILD}:/var/lib/mysql:rw
```

## White Label sample

```ruby
    class WhiteLabelConfig < Dry::Config::Base
    end

    config = WhiteLabelConfig.new
    config.load!(nil, 'base.yml', 'acme.com.yml', 'scheduling.acme.com.yml')
```    
   
## Contributing

1. Fork it
2. Create your feature branch (`git checkout -b my-new-feature`)
3. Commit your changes (`git commit -am 'Add some feature'`)
4. Push to the branch (`git push origin my-new-feature`)
5. Create new Pull Request
